# Abstract algebra
The topics I'll cover in this post are a mere introduction to the topic of abstract algebra, this subject is a really deep branch of mathematics and its goal is to generalise stuff as much as possible. Basically if you prove a nice result in a general context, you won't need to prove the same result again in a more specific case.

Note that I will update the page whenever some aspects are mentioned further in the course.
# Algebraic structures
This is a really simple definition, an algebraic structure is a tuple that is formed by a **set** and a **binary operation** in this set.

If you wonder what is a binary operation don't worry, this is also really simple:
Let $S$ be a set, let $*$ a function, $*$ is a binary operation on $S$ if and only if it's defined this way:
$*: S \times S \to S$

By this definition we have that $(S, *)$ is an algebraic structure.

Notation: given an algebraic structure $(S,*)$ and $s_1, s_2 \in S$, we will say that $*(s_1,s_2) = s_1*s_2$ to make things look nicer.
# Monoid
Let $(S, *)$ be an algebraic structure, it's a monoid if and only if:
1. $\exists e \in S$ $\forall s \in S$ $s*e=e*s=s$ 
2. $\forall a,b,c \in S$ $a*(b*c) = (a*b)*c$
Proposition: the element $e \in S$ such that property 1 holds is unique.
Proof:
Let $e_1, e_2 \in S$ be elements such that property 1 holds, by substitution we have:
1. $e_1*e_2 = e_2*e_1 =e_1$ by assumption $e_2$ follows condition 1, we can obtain this by sobstituting $s$ with $e_1$
2. $e_2*e_1 =e_2$ by assumption $e_1$ follows condition 1, we can obtain this by sobstituting $s$ with $e_2$
3. From the first two passages it follows that $e_1 = e_2$ by logic ([If it's not clear why, see this](https://www.cuemath.com/algebra/substitution-property/))
Since we proved the identity is unique, we can name it. Given a monoid $(S, *)$ its identity will be represented as $1_S$

# Group
Let $(G, *)$ be a monoid, this is a group if and only if:
1. $\forall g \in G$ $\exists g^{-1} \in G$ $g*g^{-1} = g^{-1}*g = 1_G$

